A campaign will consist of some number of players.  Each of those players manages a kingdom.

Gameplay Loop -- Missions
The main gameplay loop will consist of sending out caravans on missions.
At the start, only a single caravan can be out at once.  Later on, the kingdoms may be able to research enough to send out a second one.
When creating a caravan, every player will create one (or maybe later on with research, two) heroes to go on the caravan.  They will also vote on the mission target.
Possible mission targets:  Bosses, Resources (metal, food, wood, etc)
In the case of a tie, a random mission target from those with the highest votes is chosen.
The caravan will then be created, and based on the number of days in the mission target, a bunch of random nodes will be created to form the caravan path.
A caravan path might look like;
C - X - O - X - X - *
C = caravan.  X = Battle.  O = Treasure.  * = target

Each "day" (turn), all caravans advance, and then they must be resolved -- either through a battle, or through an event.
Days also cause time to pass at the kingdom, which can have a variety of effects.  Advancing research, constructing buildings, tasks such as dissecting a body or processing resources, Food consumption, energy consumption, etc...

Caravans -- Creating a Hero
When a caravan is sent out, a hero needs to be created for it.
The hero will always start at "level 1", and with each battle that they complete in the caravan, they will "level up".
When the hero is created, there should be three attributes chosen for them.  Weapon, Armour, and Magic.
Each of these represents a skill tree that the kingdom will have research in.
For example, TJ's kingdom might do most of its research in swords, bows, heavy armour, light armour, healing magic, and fire magic.
The game should be set up in a way that each player should be expected to research a couple of different types of each, but not be able to access everything.
Then, they can do research on the specific skill type in order to unlock additional abilities / passives for use in the rogue-like caravan. 
Each player also has "trunk space" on the caravan, to fill with items or food.

Heros -- Levelling up
This should act kind of like a rogue like game.  The kingdom will have unlocked abilities for the players to select.
The abilities are internally laid out as a tree, but every level up the hero will only have access to three upgrades, chosen at random from all available upgrades.
So, if the skill trees look like this;
Sword
*slash > *thrust > retreating slash
               --> spin
Medium Armour
*HP up > Movement up
     --> Armour up --> Armour up 2
     --> *Inventory up

and the player currently has all *'d abilities, then the random pool of upgrades would be [retreating slash, spin, movement up, armour up], and the player would get to choose 3 from them.

This makes progression re-doable, and results in each caravan being slightly different, and also means that death means little.

Heros -- Death
If a hero dies, they are considered knocked unconscious, and revive for the start of the next fight at full health, but food consumption is doubled.
If all heroes die, or the caravan runs out of food, the caravan is unsuccessful and stops immediately.

Caravans -- end of mission.
Throughout a caravan's journey, the players will have the chance to add things to it.  Corpses of monsters, resources found, and special relics.
If the caravan makes it home, each player gets a "copy" of those items in their kingdom's stocks.

Kingdoms -- actions
Each player should be able to specialize in one or two things.
Processing an item should give rewards to all players equally -- this will encourage players to do things according to their specialty.
Possible resources and actions;
Food.  Obtainable from farms, and from dessicating corpses brought back from adventures.
Building materials -- Bone, lumber, stone, metal.  Obtainable from processing resources brought back from missions.

Kingdoms -- "tier"
I'm unsure exactly how to go about this, but players research should be restricted by tiers, so that no one can get too far ahead of the others in researching abilities.
This can also act as a gate to force players to specialize in a couple of different skills.  So, for example, weapons could each have 4 tiers of skills in their skill tree.
Players unlock abilities at the same pace as each other, and the next tier is only unlocked once X research points have been spent.

Kingdoms -- research
Each kingdom has its own research tree.  The research they do unlocks or upgrades actions, and upgrades battle skills by unlocking higher tier skills.
There should probably be two types of research -- combat, and noncombat
Research should require both research points, and some items.
The items for research should be chosen to encourage players to fight challenging things, and to go on caravan missions.
Time cannot progress unless research has been selected.
Possible research;
Each skill has its own research tree.  Over the course of the game, players should expect to be able to 

Extracting resources from corpses
Extracing food from corpses
Unlocking more building slots
Upgrading buildings

Kingdoms -- buildings
Each player has access to some number of building slots.
Each building gives some passive effect -- food every day from farms, free resources every day, faster research for everyone, etc.
The buildings should impact all players, not just the one who built it.